#Topics
Repeaters – Bridges – Routers – Gateway – Routing algorithms – TCP/IP – Overview – Network
layer – Transport and application layers of TCP/IP – DNS – SMTP – HTTP – WWW 

1. Repeater – A repeater operates at the physical layer. Its job is to regenerate the signal
over the same network before the signal becomes too weak or corrupted so as to extend
the length to which the signal can be transmitted over the same network.

Hub as a multi-port repeater can be connected in a hierarchical manner to form a
single LAN with many nodes

A bridge operates at data link layer. A bridge is a repeater, with add
on functionality of filtering content by reading the MAC addresses of source
and destination
The device that can be used to interconnect two separate LANs is known as a bridg

A switch is a multi port bridge with a buffer and a design that can
boost its efficiency(large number of ports imply less traffic) and performance

Comparison between a switch and a hub
Although a hub and a switch apparently look similar, they have significant differences.
As shown in Fig. , both can be used to realize physical star topology, the hubs works like
a logical bus, because the same signal is repeated on all the ports. On the other hand, a
switch functions like a logical star with the possibility of the communication of separate
signals between any pair of port lines

A router is a device like a switch that routes data packets based on
their IP addresses. Router is mainly a Network Layer device

Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) is an Internet standard for electronic mail (email) transmission across Internet Protocol (IP) networks.

Telnet is a simple remote terminal protocol that provides a remote log-on capability,
which enables a user to log on to a remote computer and behaves as if it is directly
connected to it. The following three basic services are offered by TELNET

File Transfer Protocol (FTP) is a TCP/IP client -server application for transfer files
between two remote machines through internet

HTTP (HyperText Transfer Protocol)
HTTP is a request/response standard between a client and a server

Key advantage of DNS is the use of a hierarchical naming system and the use of distributed
database to store the huge amount of address information in many servers
